# this is a scattered doc with notes on where I'm at at any given stage!

18/03/21
Dataset copied and pasted from https://gist.github.com/curran/a08a1080b88344b0c8a7#file-iris-csv

Bit of background
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_flower_data_set
https://towardsdatascience.com/the-iris-dataset-a-little-bit-of-history-and-biology-fb4812f5a7b5

20/21 March
Just finding my feet!
Getting used to accessing, reading, parsing the data.
Did some simple calculations. Overall average measurements and then individual averages for each species.
Did a simple scatter plot - no idea the relevance just yet!
Think I'll carry on like this for a while and see where it leads!

23 March
After pandas lecture I discovered a few new tricks which make things a lot simpler! Firther investigation of pandas required! Now I have this new data, I need to try and understand what it means!
Think I've created all the plots, but they're all stuck on top of each other!

26 March
Scatter plots
Just getting to grips with these!
I'm interpretting a scatter plot of each pair of variables' as 12 plots 4 variables x the other 3. Nothing to be gleaned from comparing a variable against itself, although an example online seemed to have a histogram in that place, maybe just to keep the shape?

So after a lot of messing with figure() with all the plots sittin on top of each other, I discovered it's not what I want after all! plt.subplots(4,4) is the boy!
Not to make it look nicer and try to deal with the same variable comparison issue.

Update:
I've space it all out much better.
After a lot of searching I worked out the legend situation. For the moment I've filled the 4 empty boxes with legends.
I've only included the x,y markers on the outside plots to try and make it look tider - may revise.
I've scaled them all the same - i.e. 0-8 - to make it easier to compare - not sure if appropriate? If I let them all go to defualt it might be easier to read or at least interpreate if anything useful is happening on an indiviudal level?

Update (later that day!):
Started work on histograms. Distribution of each variable between the species

27 March
transferred these notes from README to here!
Started work on README
Created new doc - analysis.py where all the final code will reside
Started trasnferring and updating/editing all of the code from the 'practice' files

28 March
A lot of work on the scatter plots. realised that i was doing something extremely stupid!
Sorted now I think but it's a lot of code! Fairly certain there's a simpler and more efficent solution!

29 March
scatter matrix!!!!!!!!!!!!
And seaborn!!!!!
So the seaborn pairplot - does very quickly and easily what I spend all weekend trying to do!
So, I think I just need to do separate scatter plots for petals/sepals comparison between each species
i.e. 4 plots
Looks like the histograms are much easier and ncier looking in seaborn as well!

30 March
Getting stuck into seaborn. So had a go at all of the different plots on offer! Great fun! :)

31 March
Lots of editing of plots. Changed everything over to seaborn.
Trying to create a global uniform style. 
Need to investigate ways of reducing amount of code!

1st April
All finished!! 
Hah fooled myself! :)
Looked at printing the data to a text file so think that's done. Not 100% sure if it's what is required
or the most efficient way of doing it but we'll see!
A bit more formatting of the plots.

2 April
Removed violin plot and overall boxplot. Not sure if they're offering anything that isn't there already.
More formatting!!
Did a good bit more on the README. Need to really learn what all of this means!!

3 April
Did a bit more research on other peoples attempts at this. Seems I'm on the right track anyway! Or at least a similar track!
Did a bit more reformatting on the plots. Got rid of a few duplicates.
Did a bit more work on the README.

5 April 
More work on README. 
More comments added.
Replaced swarmplot with stripplot

A bit of a break to concentrate on other modules!

9 April
Added some new analysis. totals and means per row.
And reformatted a lot of the txt section
Updated README

10 April
Updating and formatting reference section.
Organising repositry better.

